APARNA JAYASURIYAN
New York, NY | +1 984-528-9004 | aparna.j.suriyan@gmail.com
LinkedIn | Github
EDUCATION
Long Island University
Master of Science in Computer Science
Visveswaraya Technological University
Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science

Brooklyn, NY
GPA: 3.9
Bangalore, India
GPA: 3.1

Jan 2015 - Dec 2016
Aug 2010 - Aug 2014

WORK EXPERIENCE
Integra Technologies, LLC
Remote
Feb 2017 - Present
Python Developer Co-op
• Designed and implemented various REST API's and backend components in a TDD environment.
• Debug and fix bugs of various priorities, thereby reducing team’s backlog by 30%.
• Refactor code modules thereby enhancing readability, efficiency and reduced size by more than 40%.
United Nations Headquarters
New York
Aug 2016 - Dec 2016
Data Analyst and Visualization Intern
• Tackled business problems by converting raw complex data sets into meaningful and actionable business ideas.
• Retrieved data using RESTful API's, SQL queries and Stored Procedures in SQL server management studio.
• Responsible for data cleaning and data modeling for large data sets of multiple UN missions worldwide.
• Performed data analysis and visualization by building a dynamic dashboard in Qlik Sense.
Performance Friction Brakes
Clover, SC
May 2016 - July 2016
Software Development Intern
• Contributed to the User Interface development of an android application that scans linear and QR inventory barcode. •
Implemented in C# using Xamarin Studio IDE.
• Adopted good version control techniques and project management tools to design and ship software.
Long Island University
Brooklyn, NY
Aug 2016 – Dec 2016
Technology Support, Dept. Of Computer Science
• Performed network administration for installed machines along with setting up lab equipments and project demo
environments for Masters and Undergraduate students.
ACADEMIC PROJECTS
Poll Everywhere Web Application
• Developed a dynamic poll management application using Spring MVC with Twilio API that manages live voting.
• Created databases, tables and queries to handle data flow in the application using H2 database.
Data Analysis of streaming Twitter Data using Pandas and Tweepy
• Designed a Python application to perform analysis on streaming twitter data on US elections.
• Incorporated Tweepy REST API’s to retrieve data from Twitter.
• Effectively utilized Pandas for data analysis and visualized insights using Tableau software.
Data Mining on Post-operation Medical data set
• Performed Data Mining preprocessing work on public medical data set using XL Miner.
• Developed predictive modeling script to model the outcome of post-operation medical data and classified using k-means
clustering and ID3 classification algorithm in Java.
Data Cleaning using NLP and NLTK
• Developed a Python script to clean data in a CSV file by converting data in Title Case to Sentence Case.
• Successfully leveraged Natural Language Processing using Python's Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK).
SKILLS
Data Analytics
: Python, Qlik Sense, Pandas, MS Excel, Tableau, NLTK, SQL Server Management Studio
Databases
: MS SQL, SQL SSIS, Stored Procedures, MySQL, H2 Database
Web Technology : CSS/HTML, Django, GitHub

